“I built a retrieval-augmented generation system with hybrid search using vector similarity and BM25,
fused via Reciprocal Rank Fusion. I added a reranking layer and strict citation guardrails.
 The entire pipeline is instrumented with OpenTelemetry and visualized in LangSmith, giving full visibility
  into embedding, retrieval, ranking, and LLM generation.”


Citation: links or references to data.
hallucination : incorrect confident response from LLMs.
grounded response (avoid hallucinate for Accuracy & Reliability:):
    In artificial intelligence, grounding is the process of anchoring a model's responses to verifiable,
    real-world information rather than letting it rely solely on the statistical patterns it learned during traing
  We separate retrieval from reasoning and enforce grounding at the prompt level to prevent hallucinations.

overlaps: add 10 to 20 at end of each chunk and beginning of the chunk to avoid hallucinations.
Guardrails: SUCH AS low, high, HITS EMPTY..ETC move to fall back
// 1. get hits
// 2. best score check
// 3. topText = hits[0]
// 4. keyword guardrail (topText only)
// 5. build multi-chunk context
// 6. call LLM

getBestScore() → score extraction
passesMinimumThreshold() → low-score rejection
passesKeywordGuard() → top-1 validation
selectUsableHits() → choose top-K usable chunks
extractContextChunks() → build LLM context
extractChunkIds() → build trace ids
fallback() → standard refusal response

FAISS (Facebook AI Similarity Search): store vectors. used to search dense vector by passing embedded query, replaced cosine similarity (angle) to
Euclidean distance (magnitude, distance between points).
Euclidean distance: is best for image recognization or any data size of the values are matter. it has 2 metrics, l2, inner product.
                    Inner product usefull such as suggesting movie based on history.
FAISS: stores Vector data.
Chroma: open source Vector DB. stores, original text, meta data, vectors. has build in models like OpenAI to turn text to embeddings.


npx create-vite@latest rag-ui
cd rag-ui
npm install
npm run dev

Design and implement scalable AI/ML-driven applications that support core ad sales workflows.
 Build intelligent orchestration layers that integrate data systems, models, and services.
 Develop agent-based and retrieval-driven systems to power automation and decision support.
 Experience with agent orchestration frameworks or workflow engines.
 AI/LLM Systems: Experience building or productionizing AI-assisted features is a plus. You should be comfortable
 thinking through orchestration, tool execution, evaluation, and reliability concerns for long-running AI-driven workflows.


 Summary of the Pipeline we built:
 -------------------------
 Extract: Get raw text.
 Chunk: Recursive splitting (smart boundaries).
 Tokenize: Check token limits (Tiktoken).
 Tag: Add metadata (filename, date, user_id).
 Embed: Turn into vectors + Normalize.
 Store: Push to Pinecone/FAI

 Next Phase:

Guardrails-> hasKeywordOverlap() into a RelevanceGuardService
 threshold constants into config properties
 RagResult into its own file

 move textChunker from fixed to recursive tokens
Go slightly more advanced (planning + multi-step loop)

 Then later add an ANN index appropriate for your setup. pgvector supports exact and approximate nearest-neighbor search and multiple distance strategies such as cosine, inner product, and L2Then later add an ANN index appropriate for your setup. pgvector supports exact and approximate nearest-neighbor search and multiple distance strategies such as cosine, inner product, and L2

 1. Hybrid Search (The "SQL + Vector" Power)
 Since you are using PGVector, you have a massive advantage: Full-Text Search (TSVector).
 The Workflow: When you ingest a PDF, don't just store the embedding.
 Store the raw text in a TSVECTOR column in Postgres.

 The Logic: When a user asks a question, perform a "Hybrid Search" that combines the BM25 (keyword) score with
  the Vector (semantic) score.
 Why: If a user searches for a specific part number like "X-5090," vector search might fail, but keyword search will nail it. Combining them makes your bot "smart."


 2. Re-ranking (The "Precision" Layer)
 This is where your RTX 5090 shines.
 The Workflow:
 Retrieve the top 20 chunks from PGVector.
 Send those 20 chunks + the user query to a local Cross-Encoder model (like cross-encoder/ms-marco-MiniLM-L-6-v2) running on your GPU.
 The Re-ranker gives each chunk a new "relevance score."
 Send only the top 5 re-ranked chunks to your LLM.
 Why: This significantly reduces "hallucinations" because the LLM only sees the absolute most relevant data.


 3. Observability (The "Management" Layer)
 Integrate LangSmith (it has a free tier) into your Spring Boot app.
 The Visual: Your dashboard will show: "Input Query" -> "Postgres Retrieval (20ms)" -> "Re-ranker (50ms)" -> "LLM Generation (500ms)."
 The Flex: In an interview, you can open your laptop and show them the trace. Seeing the logic flow visually makes you 10x more memorable than other candidates.

 What to do next in Java:
 Dependency: Add langchain4j-open-ai (for LangSmith tracking) and langchain4j-local-ai (to run your Re-ranker locally).
 SQL: Update your Postgres table to include a metadata JSONB column and a text_search_vector column.
 Prompt: Update your LLM prompt to say: "Using the following RE-RANKED context, answer the user's question..."


Step 1

👉 Answer evaluation (LLM judge)
Implemented a dual-model AI pipeline using a local LLM for answer generation and OpenAI for answer evaluation.
Added LLM-as-judge scoring for groundedness, correctness, and completeness to measure response quality and support future fallback logic.

Designed and implemented a production-style AI pipeline with:
- Hybrid retrieval (BM25 + vector + RRF fusion)
- Cross-encoder style reranking
- Dynamic query routing (RAG vs Agent)
- LLM-as-judge evaluation using OpenAI to score groundedness, correctness, and completeness
- Fault-tolerant evaluation layer with retries and graceful degradation
 - We decoupled evaluation from user-facing latency by running LLM-as-judge asynchronously, allowing us to collect quality metrics without impacting response time.

Step 2

👉 Agent routing layer

Step 3

👉 Caching (Redis)


Option A (BEST for you)

👉 Engineering Knowledge Assistant

Debugging assistant for logs
System design Q&A
Code explanation
Option B

👉 Ad Tech / Data Pipeline Assistant (matches your background)

“Why is ingestion lagging?”
“Explain Kafka consumer lag issue”
“Which service handles this?”

Option B

👉 Ad Tech / Data Pipeline Assistant (matches your background)

“Why is ingestion lagging?”
“Explain Kafka consumer lag issue”
“Which service handles this?”

how can i take this to next level workflow tools.
let's assume vehicle data is comings from JATO API calls, enrichments, normalization, calculate ratings,
 5yr ownership costs get from anothe db call and store it in postgre with draft status, later editors review it and approve it or modify them,